MARDI GRAS IN NEW ORLEANS
New Orleans, the great city at the mouth of the Mississippi is one of
the most colorful, most cosmopolitan and most European of American
cities. Though very few people in the city now speak or understand
much French, New Orleans prides itself on its French heritage. The
historic center of the city is known as the French Quarter, and the city
is famous across the United States for its restaurants and its "Mardi
Gras" celebrations. It is still one of America's great ports, where goods
that have traveled down the Mississippi valley by barge or by truck
or by train are offloaded and trans-shipped, to be exported all over the
world.
Mardi Gras, meaning literally "Fat Tuesday" was first celebrated in
Louisiana by French colonists in the eighteenth century. It was, in those
days, a day of feasting before the start of Lent, the 40-day period
leading up to Easter. As the last "normal" day before the austerity of
Lent, "fat Tuesday" was a day to make the most of, a day of carnivals,
eating, drinking and revelry. It has remained a day of carnival ever
since; but the original French celebrations are just a small part of today's
festivities. Mardi Gras, New Orleans style, owes as much to Afro-Caribbean
customs and the Latin American carnival tradition as it does to the French
colonists who established it in their new city. The Mardi Gras celebrations
actually last for several weeks. About a month before the main carnival,
a season of elaborate balls and parties begins: the official Mardi Gras
program is published, and shops start selling the very sweet and colorful
"King Cake", a delicacy that can only be found during this holiday season.
In other parts of Louisiana, the first Mardi Gras parades actually take
place three to four weeks before the big carnival in New Orleans, and
even in the city itself, smaller parades begin two weeks before the big
day. My first Mardi Gras party took place in a friend's apartment in
New Orleans a few days before the parade. The apartment was