decorated out in the season's traditional colors of green, gold and purple
the hi-fi system pounded out carnival music, while the guests danced,
talked, and ate King Cake, washed down with "Blackened Voodoo Beer",
another specialty brewed in a local brewery. On Fat Tuesday itself, I
joined the hundreds of thousands of local people and visitors, to watch
the processions wind their way through the streets of New Orleans. The
processions are organized by groups called "Krewes", which each have
mythological or historic names, such as Proteus, Endemion, or Bacchus.
The one I liked best was Zulu, a parade organized by members of the
city's black community, resplendent with its colorful ornate floats and
costumes based on African themes. Perhaps the most astonishing aspect of
Zulu and other parades was the "throws". As the floats move slowly through
the crowds, tradition has it that those on them should throw all kinds of
trinkets into the crowd — plastic necklaces, engraved plastic cups, plastic
medallions (a coveted prize) and other souvenirs. Most parade-goers do all they
can to catch these materially worthless items, and I found myself quickly
caught up in the frenzy, scraping on the sidewalk among the surging
spectators to proudly pick up my plastic prize. In the heat of the moment,
it's hard not to be caught up in the madness of this ritual, in spite of the
worthlessness of the prizes! Traditionally, people in New Orleans use
the "throw cups" they pick up, and decorate their cars or homes with the other
souvenirs they take home. As a Yankee spending my first Mardi Gras in
New Orleans, however, I made some mistakes in planning my time.
There is so much going on at Carnival time, that you can't see everything
and I was disappointed not to see more of the city's famous Dixieland
jazz bands parading through the streets, but obviously I was often in the
wrong place at the wrong time. After a year, I know that I still have
a lot to learn about the customs, cultures and traditions of Mardi Gras
in New Orleans. This year, I'll try and restrain myself during the
throws, so that I won't come home with a bagful of plastic objects that I
simply have to recycle. I'll let someone else have that pleasure!